**Lonely Project**

This is more like a lonely and useless project. It aims to build a virtual
machine that no one would probably use in the end.

The virtual machine would work in the browser. So the main code would be
javascript.

I think I plan to build it mostly all from scratch.

Why from scratch? First, I don't really have any pressure on the construction
speed, it's not a time driven project. If it takes too long time to build, it
won't hurt. Second, I would like to have the confident at the end of project,
or at any time of building this thing, to say that, I understand how each piece
works. If I just port some modern tools in, I won't be able to say that.

Javascript will be used for building the simple bootstrap tools, the virtual
machine engine and the simple user interface. The plan is after the virtual
machine is stable, I would be mainly working inside a VM for developing, using
tools that I built by my own.

I would probably need to re-learn and re-think a lot of stuff, like parsing,
compiling, language design, interface design, operating system design, and so
on.

**History**

I have written a simple VM in golang before this. However, the go version is
more like just prototyping the idea. Once I move to javascript, I changed
the RISC to a 32bit integer one, because javascript natively only supports 32bit
well. And since the final goal is to write the VM in javascript so that it could
be accessed by anyone easily, there is no point to write the VM in golang here.

Coffeescript makes javascript much easy to use, but I still love golang. The hope
is that after I build up the virtual environment, I can start designing my own
golang-like language in the virtual environment and finally code with that.

**Keep the progress**

To keep this project moving forward, I probably need to dedicate one hour or so
on this project each day, in average. 

**Bootstrap**

Bootstraping is often tricky. Since at first I have nothing on my table, I have
to use some external tools. I think the key part of bootstraping is to build
and use tools that would be useful even in the final system.

The very first part of the project is to build a VM, and moreover, a VM debugger
where one can run the VM step by step, monitoring the state of the registers
and watching the contents of the memory. This would be very useful on debugging
the virtual machine. 

Another useful thing would be a debug console that controls the VM debugger.
From building this, we will have a char based console working, and also a
scrolling frame buffer. I am not sure though if scrolling should be supported,
since it might be better implemented in software, rather than hardware. Since 
everything is eventually software simulated, and upon the scrolling, the entire
screen will be updated anyway, there is no point to provide optimization on
scrolling. 

So the first point would just be a simple VM debugger that runs in one terminal
window.  The other terminal window would be an interactive console window
that controls the VM debugger by sending commands.

There is no point to build a text editor at this point, just use the external
ones. It is tempting to build a text editor or even an IDE for writing the
assemblies, but text editors and IDEs are pretty complex. And if written
in javascript, it won't be reusable in the future. So just skip that

**Test cases**

This is about how to test the assembly language. It would be neat to say that a
test case is correct when it outputs nothing. However, a program that panics
and halts at a wired place would also output nothing. I better approach would
be halt 0 is always bad, and one would expect halt 1, which would be a more
special indicator for success.

Yeah, more changes to the RISC.

